Craftsmanship and Innovation

One of the great strengths of "The World's Factory" is the ability to quickly pirate popular consumer products and resell them for significantly lowered price. While we don't generally associate this practice with our idea of innovation, I wonder if perhaps it does bring a small dose of improvements over the original production design and process?

Growing up in Taiwan, a country inherited many of the traditional values from mainland China, I went to school everyday wearing the same school uniform and a buzz cut just like every other boy in my class. Our instructors preached discipline and confirmity. We committed classical poetry and Confucian texts into our memories, and practiced writing Chinese characters hundreds of times a day.

My American education started when I turned 14. One of my earliest culture shocks was how different everyone looked in school. I sensed a strong desire amongst my peers to stand out, and that reflected in the way people dressed and behaved. The education system encouraged forming our own opinions and sharing them through writing and public speaking. I found many of my fellow students to be more vocal, and better at articulating their thoughts.

My third education experience started when I left college, and went on to take my first full-time job as an apprentice at a software consulting firm. It was all about discipline and learning through imitation again. I learned as I observed a professional software developer moving his fingers on top of a keyboard, and produced lines and lines of computer instructions. I imitated his approach and process until I could internalize them as my own approach and process. Craftsmanship is a lifelong journey to the mastery of an art, and at the beginning of that journey, as I discovered, lies a long period of observation and imitation.

What is innovation? Today we often think of innovation as a industry-disrupting, revolutionary change. For instance, the Internet was a sigfinicant innovation. However, the Internet would never hold as much impact as it did today, without countless small improvements over time that consumerized, and applied the technology to our daily lives. Looking back at my elementary school yearbook, I remembered what I failed to notice years ago when I first enrolled in an American high school. My Chinese classmates wanted to stand out from the crowd just as their American counterparts. The constraints and limitations of our school rules and system only made their uniquenesses more subtle, and more refined.

Innovation can be a great leap forward, or a little refinement. As we are often awestruck by geniuses and the monumental changes they bring upon our society, I would also like to keep in mind of the small changes that many individuals quietly contributed to making our world a little better each time.
